Add mailing lists (#714)
publiccodenet/about: activities/tool-management/mailing lists.md

---
type: resource, tooling
---

# Mailman mailing lists

> Mailman is free software for managing electronic mail discussion and e-newsletter lists. Mailman is integrated with the web, making it easy for users to manage their accounts and for list owners to administer their lists. Mailman supports built-in archiving, automatic bounce processing, content filtering, digest delivery, spam filters, and more.

Reviewer: This reads like an advertisement for Mailman. Deleting the second and third sentences and replacing them with a statement of the value it provides us, or why we use it, might make it seem less like an ad.

## 1. Guidance for people who join our mailing lists 

> * How to join

Reviewer: Should these bullets be H3s?

To subscribe to the mailing list 'listname' you can send an email with 'subscribe' in the subject to 'listname-join@lists.publiccode.net'. By subscribing to our lists you give us consent to use your email address for mailing list purposes only.

You can also subscribe at the URL and [select the mailing list you want to be part of](https://lists.publiccode.net/mailman/postorius/lists/?all-lists).

> You will receive an email address registration confirmation where you need to confirm your email address by replying to the message keeping the subject header intact. If you changes your mind you can simply disregard the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will receive an email to confirm your email address registration. Confirm your email address by replying to the message keeping the subject header intact. If you change your mind, you can simply ignore the message.
```

After confirming the email address another mail will be sent:
>
> Welcome to the 'listname' mailing list!
>
> To post to this list, send your email to:
>
> 'listname@lists.publiccode.net'
>
> You can make such adjustments via email by sending a message to:
>
> 'listname-request@lists.publiccode.net'
>
> with the word 'help' in the subject or body (don't include the quotes), and you will get back a message with instructions. You will need your password to change your options, but for security purposes, this email is not included here. If you have forgotten your password you will need to click on the 'Forgot Password?' link on the login page.

If you haven't received the welcome message please make sure to check your spam folder!

For general information on using the Mailman mailing lists you can have a look at the [user documentation](https://wiki.list.org/DOC/Mailman%202.1%20Members%20Manual).

* What happens with your data

The system registers contact details (name, e-mail) for use in the administration of the subscription to lists and forums in Mailman. We will delete the contact details when the user terminates the subscription.

* How to leave

> The easiest way to unsubscribe from the mailing list is to send a message to listname-leave@lists.publiccode.net. Mailman will send you a confirmation message and if you reply to that message you will be unsubscribed. You will not need to know your password to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to unsubscribe from the mailing list is to send a message to listname-leave@lists.publiccode.net. Mailman will send you a confirmation message. If you reply to that message you will be unsubscribed. You do not need to know your password to do this.
```

> You can also unsubscribe via the web page by [simply click on the mailing list you are on]( https://lists.publiccode.net/mailman/postorius/lists/?all-lists) and then click "unsubscribe".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also unsubscribe via the web page by [simply clicking on the mailing list you are on]( https://lists.publiccode.net/mailman/postorius/lists/?all-lists) and then clicking "unsubscribe".
```

## 2. Guidance for mailing list administrators

* What to do with people's data

When a user signs up to our mailing list they give us consent to use that email address for mailings as per [our privacy policy](https://about.publiccode.net/organization/privacy.html). When the user unsubscribes we will remove the email address from the database.

* How we handle code of conduct violations

> In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to making participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the interest of fostering an open and welcoming environment, we as contributors and maintainers pledge to make participation in our project and our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.
```

> The full [code of conduct](https://about.publiccode.net/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html) is available on our website. Some of the codebases in our stewarship have other codes of conduct, which will be linked from the description page of that mailing list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the full [Foundation for Public Code code of conduct](https://about.publiccode.net/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html) applies to all of our mailing lists. Some of the codebases in our stewardship have other codes of conduct, which will be linked from the description page of that mailing list.
```

* Mailing list archives

> Our intention is to keep all data, unless someone specifically requests their data be removed. Our mailing lists archives are [here](https://lists.publiccode.net/hyperkitty/hyperkitty/). HyperKitty is the archiver project for the Mailman 3 suite, allowing users to browse mailing lists, start new threads and reply to existing threads, mark messages as favorite, search archives, and so on.

Reviewer: "here" is unhelpful link text for someone using a screenreader.

```suggestion
Our intention is to keep all posts, unless someone specifically requests their data be removed. [See our mailing lists archives]((https://lists.publiccode.net/hyperkitty/hyperkitty/)). HyperKitty is the archiver project for the Mailman 3 suite, allowing users to browse mailing lists, start new threads and reply to existing threads, mark messages as favorite, search archives, and so on.
```
